Subject: [BUG] ipa: simple: Saturation is silently dropped when Ccm is listed after Adjust

Hi,

The software ISP's Saturation control is silently never registered if a tuning
file lists the Ccm algorithm after Adjust. The control does not appear on the
camera at all, applications setting it see no error, and nothing is logged. It
took a while to find because every symptom points at the control being applied
and having no effect, rather than at the control not existing.

Mechanism, on master (62d4bfc4):

  - src/ipa/libipa/module.h:96 - createAlgorithms() walks the tuning file's
    algorithm list in order and calls init() on each in turn.

  - src/ipa/simple/algorithms/ccm.cpp:25 - Ccm::init() sets
    context.ccmEnabled = true.

  - src/ipa/simple/algorithms/adjust.cpp:33 - Adjust::init() registers
    controls::Saturation only if context.ccmEnabled is already true.

  - src/ipa/simple/soft_simple.cpp:180 - the finished ctrlMap is snapshotted at
    the end of IPASoftSimple::init() and handed to the pipeline handler.

So the flag is read during Adjust::init() but only written during Ccm::init().
List Adjust first and it is still false at that moment, Saturation is never put
in ctrlMap, and the camera never advertises it. The application's value is
dropped before it reaches the IPA.

Reproduction, with a tuning file containing a valid Ccm:

  algorithms:
    - BlackLevel:
    - Awb:
    - Adjust:
    - Agc:
    - Ccm:            # after Adjust

  $ cam -c1 --list-controls | grep -i saturation
  (nothing - Contrast and Gamma are listed, Saturation is absent)

Move the Ccm entry above Adjust and the same file gives:

  Control: [inout] libcamera::Saturation: [0.000000..2.000000]

The decisive evidence above is `cam --list-controls`, which exercises only
upstream code. The numbers below come from a build carrying local modifications
for an RGB-IR sensor, so treat them as illustrating the effect rather than as
something to reproduce exactly - mean chroma of one fixed scene at three
settings, everything but the algorithm order held constant:

  Ccm after Adjust    saturation 0.0 / 1.0 / 2.0  ->  3.86  3.87  3.87
  Ccm before Adjust   saturation 0.0 / 1.0 / 2.0  ->  1.00  4.01  7.99

The first row is the bug: saturation 0.0 should give a greyscale image and does
nothing at all. The second is the same file with only the order changed.

I have not sent a patch because the right fix depends on conventions I do not
know well enough, and there seem to be at least three reasonable ones:

  1. Determine ccmEnabled from the parsed tuning data before any algorithm's
     init() runs, since whether a Ccm exists is a static property of the file
     and not something that should depend on evaluation order.

  2. Register the control unconditionally in Adjust::init() and keep the
     existing ccmEnabled gate on the apply path. This trades a missing control
     for an inert one, which may not be an improvement.

  3. Log a warning when Adjust::init() runs with ccmEnabled false, which does
     not fix it but makes it findable.

Happy to write whichever is preferred.

For context, the same gate means Saturation also does nothing when a tuning file
has no Ccm at all. That case at least has a reason - there is no combined matrix
to write into - though I could not find it documented anywhere, so it may be
worth a note either way. This report is about the other case: a Ccm that IS
present and correct, silently defeated by where it sits in the list.

Thanks,
Sahan Nissanka
